# Flask Healthcare Application

## Project Overview
This project is a full-stack web application built using Python, Flask, and MongoDB Atlas to collect and analyze healthcare-related survey data for a new product development. It includes form handling, database integration, data processing, data visualization and cloud deployment.


## Features
- Web form to collect user data: name, email, phone, age, gender, income, and categorized expenses.
- Expense categories include: utilities, entertainment, school fees, shopping, healthcare, and others.
- Data storage in MongoDB Atlas.
- Reading and loading data from cloud storage to csv_files.
- Data visualization using Seaborn and Matplotlib.
- Flask App hosted on AWS EC2, publicly accessible via this link: http://35.179.152.112:5000/
N.B.: The data present in the current user_data.csv was generated using Faker for illustration. It is not real data.

## Technologies Used
- **Flask** (Python web framework)
- **MongoDB Atlas** (cloud database)
- **Seaborn & Matplotlib** (for data visualization)
- **AWS EC2** (for deployment)

## System Requirements
- Visual Studio Code with Pylance extension (recommended)
- Jupiter Notebook (recommended)
- Python 3.11 or 3.13 (recommended)
- MongoDB

## Setup Instructions
### Python Setup Instructions
1. Download and install Python 3.13 from: https://www.python.org/downloads/
2. Open VS Code and install the Pylance extension:
   - Go to Extensions 
   - Search for "Pylance"
   - Click Install
3. In the terminal, use 'pip install' to install requirements 'Pymongo', 'Flask', 'Pandas', 'Matplotlib', 'Seaborn' packages if not previously installed.

### Jupiter Notebook Setup Instructions
1. Install the Jupiter notebook extension in Visual Studio code.
OR 
1. Download and install Jupyter Notebook (if not already installed) by running 'pip install notebook' in your terminal 
2. Launch Jupiter by running 'jupyter notebook'. A browser window will open.

### MongoDB Setup Instructions
1. Set up a MongoDB Atlas account at https://www.mongodb.com/try.
2. Follow the setup prompt and retrieve a connection string.
3. Create a .env file in the project folder and assign the string to the 'uri' variable (uri=connectionstring). 

## Running the Files
1. In your preferred IDE, open the folder containing all files.
2. Select the get_data.py file and run. A browser tab would open to a survey form. Fill the form and submit (DO NOT USE SENSITIVE DATA).
3. Next, run the load_data.py file to retrieve data from the database. The data would be stored in user_data.csv.
4. Next, open the data_viz.ipynb file and 'Run All'. 2 visuals would be exported as PNG for ages with the highest income and gender distribution across spending categories, would can be used for PowerPoint presentation.

## Files Included
- get_data.py: Flask app that generates a survey form.
- form.html: HTML file for survey form design.
- load_data.py: py script for loading data from the database into user_data.csv
- data_viz.ipynb: Jupyter notebook for visualizing data
- user_data.csv: Contains data generated by load_data.py.
- average_expenses_by_gender.png: visualization of gender distribution across spending categories.
- average_income_by_age_group_.png: visualization of ages with the highest income
- README.md


